---
layout: post
title: RailsAdmin
excerpt: RailsAdmin is a Rails engine that provides an easy-to-use interface for managing your data.
---
Erlier this week "RailsAdmin":rails-admin came out to the wider world.

"RailsAdmin":rails-admin is a Rails engine that provides an easy-to-use interface for managing your data. "RailsAdmin":rails-admin started as a port of "MerbAdmin":merb-admin to Rails3 and was implemented as a "Ruby Summer of Code":roc project by "Bogdan Gaza":bogdan with mentors "Erik Michaels-Ober":erik, "Yehuda Katz":yehuda, "Rodrigo Rosenfeld Rosas":rodrigo, "Luke van der Hoeven":luke, and "Rein Henrichs":rein.

I first heard it from "Jose Valim’s tweet":jose-tweet. If he said it is very well written, it has be so. At first I thought about "RailsAdmin":rails-admin as another "ActiveScaffold":active-scaffold or "Streamlined":streamlined clone. Then I remembered that I gave a try some of them but each had some issues that makes them unusable in my projects. That’s why I decided to try out the newest rails administration engine.

Installation is easy and well explained in a "Readme":readme file. I installed it in the project that uses ActiveRecord as this is the only ORM supported at the moment. This is quite an issue for me as my main project uses "MongoMapper":mongomapper. Fortunately "Teng Siong Ong":teng should be already working on this "issue":issue-1. The other issue that I got was that "RailsAdmin":rails-admin is available under “/admin” route and it can not be currently changed. This is another blocking issue for me as I have this route already used in almost every application. Fortunately (again) this "issue":issue-2 should be soon (I hope) fixed.

Alright. Assuming that your application uses Rails3, ActiveRecord and does not use “/admin” rooute. Are there any other issues that prevents using "RailsAdmin":rails-admin? Actually, there was (for me) a few:

* "RailsAdmin":rails-admin controller inherits from your ApplicationController. That means that if you have some wired stuff like finding subdomains, or setting locales in your ApplicationController then it break "RailsAdmin":rails-admin. However, maybe ApplicationController is not the best place to keep that kind of stuff.
* if you have I18n.default_locale set in your environment.rb and "RailsAdmin":rails-admin doesn’t support it, than the only thing that you’ll see are “translation_missing” messages
* looking at the list of "issues":issues on github there could be even more

Besides issues that I mentioned, and other that you could have I think that could be a really useful tool for every rails developer. Looking at the same issue list and recent commit history I believe that "RailsAdmin":rails-admin will be one of that tools that you adds to your each new application.

Thanks to "Erik":erik, and to all contributors.

[rails-admin]https://github.com/sferik/rails_admin
[merb-admin]http://github.com/sferik/merb-admin
[roc]http://www.rubysoc.org/projects
[bogdan]http://github.com/hurrycane
[erik]http://github.com/sferik
[yehuda]http://github.com/wycats
[rodrigo]http://github.com/rosenfeld
[luke]http://github.com/plukevdh
[rain]http://github.com/reinh
[jose-tweet]http://twitter.com/josevalim/status/15349132516397056
[active-scaffold]http://www.activescaffold.com/
[streamlined]http://streamlinedframework.org/
[readme]https://github.com/sferik/rails_admin/blob/master/README.mkd
[mongomapper]https://github.com/jnunemaker/mongomapper
[teng]https://github.com/siong1987
[issue-1]https://github.com/sferik/rails_admin/issues/#issue/105
[issue-2]https://github.com/sferik/rails_admin/issues#issue/151
[issues]https://github.com/sferik/rails_admin/issues